# Week 3 - Preparation

For this weeks lesson we are going to learn about ASP.NET Core and how we can use that to build web applications.
There are many different ways to build websites / web-apps, but the one we are going to focus on is the approach based on the design pattern Model-View-Controller (MVC).
You can read about MVC as a general concept here: [Model-View-Controller](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller).

The basic idea is that the incoming request goes to a Controller (implemented as a class) and then, based on the request, executes a method (called an Action) on that controller.
So, the main logic for each request is within the controllers action method - and it typically manipulates a Model - which is also another object defined in a class.
Finally, the controller then uses a View to generate an output to send to the user.

There are a bunch of videos explaining the concept of MVC.
Watch this: [Mvc explained in 4 minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUg2SWWK18I&ab_channel=WebDevSimplified).
It's not perfect - but it gives a general introduction to the concept.

## Trying MVC
In this course we will primarily be focusing on making a rest API in our Asp.Net Core solution, and since an API typically doesn't have a user interface, we won't be focusing on the Views, but rather on the Controllers and Models.

However, in your preparation it is a good idea to try to create an MVC application from a template. 
Follow these steps:
1) Create a new folder, called "MyMVCApplication"
2) Open that folder in Visual Studio Code, and start a terminal
3) Run these commands
```
dotnet new mvc
dotnet run
```
If you get an error running it related to local certificate, then run ```dotnet dev-certs https --trust``` in order to trust the local https certificate.
4) Browse around the site to understand it's very limited functionality
5) Browse around the code, see the controller, the model and the views to see if you can understand how it works.

## Trying Web Api
As mentioned, we'll mostly be focussing on building web API's, so let's try to do the same with a web api:

Follow these steps:
1) Create a new folder, called "MyWebApiApplication"
2) Open that folder in Visual Studio Code, and start a terminal
3) Run these commands
```
dotnet new webapi
dotnet run
```
4) If you open the url to the site in a browser (see it in your terminal), you should get a 404 error. It's an API, so there's no default page. However, if you go to /Swagger, you should see autogenerated swagger pages for the API.
5) Explore the code again, and pay special attention to the controller. See if you can understand how it works.
6) Optional! Try to create a new model - for example an "Animal" and add an action method to the controller to return an instance of that class.

## Other preparations
- If we have time, we will spend 10 minutes with a 'Clash of Code', so sign up to https://www.codingame.com/


